Home faculty Dr. Azhar Rasool DR. AZHAR RASOOL Assistant Professor Department of Business Studies 122 azhar.rasool@namal.edu.pk Profile Publications Courses Projects Summary Dr. Azhar holds a Ph.D. in Agribusiness with dual affiliations from the University of Agriculture Faisalabad, Pakistan, and the University of Florida, USA. He has worked for numerous organizations, such as ADB, ICARDA, and USAID projects, for eight years as a teacher and researcher. He worked in Homestead, Miami, for the USDA during his fellowship in the United States.
Mr. Azhar’s research interests include value chain governance, the dynamics of the evolving consumer market, the interactions between academia and industry, and the difficulties faced by smallholders in particular. He delivered research presentations at multiple international symposiums held at AAPCEC in Ethiopia, IFAMA in New Zealand, Spain, USA and Brazil. His research study was published in a distinguished publication produced by Cambridge University. Academic Background Ph.D (Agribusiness) (Value chain governance and growers' sustainable performance ) University of Agriculture Faisalabad / UFL USA 2024 MBA (3.5 Years) Agribusiness Management (Business Education and Academia-Industry Linkages) University of Agriculture Faisalabad 2016 Honours and Awards Scholarship Recipient by Bayer Crop Sciences for Research Presentation at IFAMA-2024 World Conference, Spain" Scholarship awarded by the Bayer Crop Sciences to present the research paper at the IFAMA-2024 World Conference in Spain. 01-Feb-2024 Travel Grant from TREC, UFL, USA Awarded a travel grant by the Tropical Research and Education Center, the University of Florida, United States of America to present the research paper at the IFAMA-2023 World Conference in New Zealand. 05-Mar-2023 Awardee of IRSIP Fellowship for UFL, USA Awarded a 6-months fellowship (Dec 2022 to May 2023), by the HEC, Pakistan under the IRSIP at the University of Florida, United States of America 12-Dec-2022 Recipient of Laptop under the Prime Minister’s Youth Initiative Awarded Laptop from Govt. under the Prime Minister’s Youth Initiative 30-May-2017 Merit Scholarship holder in MS/MBA Agribusiness Management Merit Scholarship holder in MS/MBA Agribusiness Management due to higher the CGPA at the Institute of Business Management Sciences, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan 12-Dec-2016 Journal Publications Farm Productivity and Social Sustainability in Formalized Value Chain Governance: The Case of the Potato Industry in Pakistan 31-Aug-2023 Renew. Agri. Food Syst. Cambridge University Press. (Accepted for publications, Dated Aug-31st 2023) Conference Publications Governance of Potato Value Chains for Regenerative Agriculture: Pathways to Sustainability and Climate Resilience in Pakistan 20-Aug-2025 Presented at TEAF Conference 2025, in University of Agriculture Faisalabad, Pakistan (20–21) August. Leveraging Value Chain Governance for Regenerative Agriculture: Enhancing Sustainability and Climate Resilience in Pakistan's Potato Industry 26-Jun-2025 Presented (Virtually) at 35th annual IFAMA World Agribusiness Conference, was held at Harven Agribusiness School in Ribeirão Preto, Brazil, June 22 to 26, 2025. Comparing growers’ sustainable agricultural practices
under different value chain governance structures: Evidence from potato industry in Pakistan 22-Jul-2024 Presented (in-person) in IFAMA-2024 World Conference, Spain (17–20) June. Analyzing the Postharvest Harvest Losses in Different Value Chain Governance Structures: Experience from the Potato Industry in Pakistan 19-Sep-2023 Abstract presented (virtual) in 4th AAPHCE, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Does Value Chain Governance affect Food Loss and Growers’ Economic Performance? Evidence from Potato Industry in Pakistan 18-Jun-2023 Presented (in-person) in IFAMA-2023 World Conference, New Zealand (17–20) June Impact of formalized value chain governance on smallholder wellbeing: Case of the Pakistani potato industry 22-Mar-2023 Presented (in-person) in TREC/IFAS, University of Florida, USA. Impact of Contract Farming on Smallholders’ Well-being: The Case of Potato Growers in Pakistan 06-Dec-2022 Presented (in-person) in ICFSVC-2022. MNS University of Agriculture, Multan, (Punjab) Pakistan Identifying and Characterizing the Value Chain Coordination Structures in the Potato Industry of Pakistan 18-Oct-2022 Presented (in-person) in IHC-22. Gomal Uni. DI Khan, Pakistan Comparative analysis of traditional and model cattle/ livestock markets in Punjab, Pakistan: Some policy lessons 11-Dec-2016 Presented (virtual) in international conference at the UC-Davis, USA. Courses Introduction to Management Entrepreneurship Business Research Methods Supply Chain Management Tropical Research and Education Center, the University of Florida, USA Served as a Research Associate (Feb-2023 To May-2023) in project entitled, “Understanding costs and benefits for fresh-cut mango product: A decision tool” at Tropical Research and Education Center, the University of Florida, United States of America Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan (ICAP), Pakistan Served as a Research Associate (Nov-2021 To Jan-2022) Under ICAP-funded project entitled, “A diagnostic role of middlemen in financing &mktg. of agri. business, its impact on potato farmers earning and consumers price” at UAF. Asian Development Bank Served as a Research Associate (Nov-2020 To Feb-2021) Asian Development Bank funded project entitled, “Analysis of Fruit and Vegetable Value Chains in Pakistan” at IBMS, University of Agriculture Faisalabad, Pakistan USDA/ICARDA Served as a Research Associate (Jan-2018 To May-2018) in USDA/ICARDA funded project, at Pakistan Agriculture Research Council (PARC), SSRI, AARI, Pakistan Agricultural Research Council, Faisalabad, Pakistan Faisalabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Pakistan Served as a Research Scholar (March-2017 To Dec-2017) at The Faisalabad Chambers of Commerce & Industries, Faisalabad, Pakistan to explore the "Agricultural Prospects and Challenges for Pakistan Under CPEC". Higher Education Commission, Pakistan Served as a Research Associate (Dec-2015 To Feb-2017) in HEC funded project entitled, “University-Industry Implications to Improve Business Education in Pakistan” at the Institute of Business Management Sciences, University of Agriculture Faisalabad, Pakistan × search