Home faculty Dr. Sami ud Din DR. SAMI UD DIN Associate Professor/HOD Department of Electrical Engineering 162 sami.uddin@namal.edu.pk Profile Publications Courses Projects Summary SAMI UD DIN.  received a B.S. degree in 2009 and an M.S. degree in Electronics Engineering (Control Systems) from Muhammad Ali Jinnah University (M.A.J.U), Islamabad, Pakistan, in 2012. He has completed his Ph.D degree in Electrical Engineering with a specialization in Control Systems from the Capital University of Science and Technology (C.U.S.T), Islamabad, Pakistan, in 2019.
He was associated with the Department of Electrical Engineering at The University of Lahore, Islamabad Campus, Pakistan, till Oct 2019 (as HoD/Assistant Professor.) Now, he is associated with the Department of Electrical Engineering at Namal University, Mianwali, Pakistan. Academic Background PhD in Electrical Engineering ( Non-linear Control, Sliding Mode Control, Under-actuated Systems, Higher Order Sliding Mode Control, Marine and Aerial Vehicles, Chaotic Systems,  Power Systems, Robotics and Electromechanical Systems.  ) Capital University of Science and Technology (C.U.S.T) Islamabad 2019 MS Electronics Engineering (Non-linear control, Sliding mode control, Under-actuated systems, Chaotic systems, Robotics. ) Muhammad Ali Jinnah University (M.A.J.U), Islamabad 2012 Experience Associate Professor Namal University Mianwali 01-Mar-2023 -    continue Assistant Professor Namal University Mianwali 01-Nov-2019 -    28-Feb-2023 Head of  Electrical Engineering Department / Assistant Professor The University of Lahore, Islamabad Campus 12-Dec-2013 -    31-Oct-2019 Assistant Professor (AP)/ Head Labs The University of Lahore, Islamabad Campus 01-Oct-2012 -    01-Nov-2013 Lecturer The University of Lahore, Islamabad Campus 01-Oct-2011 -    30-Sep-2012 Management Trainee Engineering Development Board 15-Apr-2010 -    14-Apr-2011 Honours and Awards Best Teacher Award Best Teacher Award for Academic Year 2022-2023 05-Jan-2024 Journal Publications Modified triple modular redundancy based fault-tolerant three-phase matrix converter design with AI driven diagnostic capabilities 11-Mar-2025 Three-Phase Matrix Converters (TPMCs) are mostly used in various potential applications, including aircraft, wind turbines, and AC drives. These system applications are endangered by severe disruptions due to critical faults in power electronic switches, which can cause whole system shutdowns and component damage. To reduce these risks and ensure reliable operation under faulty conditions, a robust Fault-Tolerant Control System (FTCS) for TPMC is essential. This paper introduces the diagnosed open-circuit switches fault and fault-tolerant control for TPMCs. The Fault Detection and Isolation (FDI) unit is recommended for integration with the Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) based FTCS to identify and isolate defective switches. The FDI unit is additionally outfitted with Modified Triple Modular Redundancy (MTMR) to ensure fault tolerance. To prevent system shutdowns and ensure process continuity, this system can detect faulty switches, isolate them, and then replace them with redundant ones. This strategy mitigates the impact of defective components on the system's overall performance by ensuring their prompt identification and repair. The proposed FTCS, together with MTMR and a cutting-edge FDI unit, will significantly improve the reliability. The MATLAB/Simulink results indicate that the proposed system provides 99.9 % reliability and ANN's parallel computations allow the system to offer fast fault detection. Investigations in this domain have demonstrated that the proposed methodology is an effective means of maintaining operational continuity despite the existence of open circuit failures. Hybrid Multi-Criteria Decision Framework for Prosumers Energy Storage Systems in Smart Grids 11-Dec-2024 Modern power systems encompass multiple prosumers, smart grid technologies, and renewable energy resources (RERs). These prosumer-based smart grids are facing the reliability issues that can be mitigated through the adoption of competitive storage technologies. A range of competitive storage technologies have been developed by scientists. However, the systematic selection of best storage technologies is still one of the main challenging research issues in the current literature. To fill this literature gap, this paper proposes a multi-criteria decision framework for energy storage selection in prosumer-based networks. First, a decision-making hierarchy was developed based on the three main criteria including energy flow management for prosumers, technical features, and sustainability. Under these criteria, various sub-criteria were identified. Second, multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) problem was solved for two cases using Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) and Preference Ranking Organization Method for Enrichment of Evaluations (PROMETHEE) methods separately. Third, a hybrid AHP and PROMETHEE method was proposed for the selection of an efficient storage system for prosumers based smart grid. Finally, a comprehensive outlook has been provided for prosumer energy storage evaluation. Findings revealed several implications for more accurate storage evaluation decision making. For instance, sensitivity analysis reveals that the lithium ion battery (LIB) has the first preference in AHP method, and the lead acid battery (LAB) has the first preference in PROMETHEE method. However, the second preference for AHP method was the LAB, and the second preference for PROMETHEE method was the LIB. Hence, separate application AHP and PROMETHEE offered a slightly different ranking. According to the proposed hybrid procedure, LIB was ranked as the first option by both AHP and PROMETHEE methods. As a result, the hybridization of AHP and PROMETHEE methods offered a more robust and unique solution to the storage selection problem as compared to the individual method. Storage evaluation decision making has several implications for prosumer-based power systems. In future, only a few storage alternatives would not meet the needs of the large scale emerging power systems, such as peer-to-peer networks. In this situation, the rapid and accurate ranking of various competitive storage alternatives would be a challenging problem. This study is valuable because it offers a comprehensive and flexible decision making tool for storage evaluation for prosumer-based smart grids. For instance, the proposed model can be evaluated with addition or removal of criteria and storage alternatives under different situations. Damping sub-synchronous resonance in DFIG wind farms: An innovative controller utilizing wide-area measurement systems 01-Nov-2023 The use of series shunt compensators along with wind energy in power systems has increased significantly. One of the main disadvantages of wind energy and series compensation is the phenomenon of sub-synchronous amplification. In this paper, a control method with fuzzy system based on wide area measurement systems (WAMS) and considering time delay in order to increase the damping of sub-synchronous oscillations in compensated networks with capacitive compensators and wind turbines. The DFIG type is provided in the GSC converter’s voltage control loop for the system’s stable operation. The simulation results using MATLAB/Simulink software on Modified IEEE First Bench Mark test networks show the effectiveness of the proposed method in damping sub-synchronous oscillations in power systems compensated with series capacitors. Finite-time convergence of perturbed nonlinear systems using adaptive barrier-function nonsingular sliding mode control with experimental validation 01-Jul-2023 In this study, an adaptive barrier procedure is combined with nonsingular sliding mode control (SMC) technique at the aim of the fast stabilization of nonlinear system with external disturbances. It is verified that the barred function-based control law leads to the fast convergence of state errors to a region near origin. Furthermore, the suggested method eradicates the requirement for the knowledge of upper bounds of exterior perturbations which are frequently required in SMC scheme. The stability analysis confirms fast convergence of the error states to a predetermined region. In order to 
emonstrate the validity of the planned method, a mass-spring system is examined as the case study. Finally, simulation and experimental outcomes on a mass-spring system are given to prove the efficacy and success of the advised methodology. Barrier function-based adaptive nonsingular terminal sliding mode control technique for a class of disturbed nonlinear systems 01-Mar-2023 In this article, an adaptive non-singular terminal sliding mode controller (NTSMC) is designed based on a barrier function for the robust stability of a category of non-linear dynamic systems in the existence of the external disturbances. The planned approach implements a non-singular terminal sliding mode controller (NTSMC) to ensure robust performance with finite time convergence and singularity-free dynamics. It also uses Barrier Functions (BFs) as an adaptation approach for the NTSMC to attain the tracking errors’ convergence to a pre-defined neighbourhood of origin, with a controller gain that is not over-estimated and without requiring any knowledge about the upper bounds of disturbances. The Lyapunov-based stability analysis is carried out to confirm the asymptotic convergence of tracking errors to a pre-defined neighbourhood of zero. The effectiveness and performance of the planned approach is illustrated through simulations and experiments. Robust tracking composite nonlinear feedback controller design for time-delay uncertain systems in the presence of input saturation 07-Sep-2022 In this study, a robust control technique is investigated for the reference tracking of uncertain time-delayed systems in the existence of the actuator saturation. Due to emerging of some control complexities, as well as the input limitations, time-varying delay, uncertainty, and external disturbance, such a tracking goal would be realized through suitable design of the composite nonlinear feedback (CNF) controller. Thus, considering the mentioned limitations, a Lyapunov-based procedure is used to determine the control law. Then, the parameters of the CNF input are derived by using the solution of a linear matrix inequality (LMI) problem. The planned tracking idea is numerically implemented in two uncertain control systems. Some performance characteristics (i.e., the tracking error, boundedness, and transient responses) are compared with similar ones. Accordingly, the simulations illustrate the efficiency of the suggested control procedure over the existing CNF approaches. A hybrid approach for fault location in power distributed networks: Impedance-based and machine learning technique 01-Sep-2022 Fault location (FL) is one of the challenges in distribution networks. Many impedance-based methods have been developed to address this challenge. However, these impedance-based methods are not yet able to provide a unique answer, and they only can approximate the distance of the fault from the reference point, which creates challenges in systems that have a large number of separate lines. In this paper, using the impedance method, as well as a deep neural network, a new method for FL is suggested, which can provide a unique answer. In this approach, the FL is determined in less than 6 s, and the accuracy of 99 percent. The deep memory neural network is then used to accurately detect the exact fault location between candidate points. This method also identifies the line where the fault occurred. The performed simulations confirm the validity of the proposed method. Synchronization and Anti-synchronization of Identical 4-D Hyperchaotic Financial System with External Perturbation via Sliding Mode Control Technique 29-Apr-2022 In this article, complete synchronization and antisynchronization in the identical financial chaotic system are presented. The proposed control strategies depend on first-order sliding mode and adaptive integral sliding mode for complete synchronization and antisynchronization of the identical financial chaotic system. In the primary case, the system parameters should be known, and first-order sliding mode control is utilized for synchronization and antisynchronization while in the second case, the system parameters are considered unknown. An adaptive integral sliding mode control strategy is utilized for synchronization and
antisynchronization of the system considering the parameters unknown. The error system is changed into a particular structure containing a nominal part and several unknown terms to utilize the adaptive integral sliding mode control. Then, this error system is stabilized using integral sliding mode control. The stabilizing controller is usually developed based on the nominal part plus the compensator control part. To suppress the high-frequency oscillation (chattering) phenomenon, smooth continuous compensator control can be used rather than conventional discontinuous control. The compensator controller along with the adapted law is derived such that the time derivative of the Lyapunov function becomes strictly negative. The effectiveness of the proposed method was tested through computer simulations. +e proposed control strategies are verified for that Identical 4D hyperchaotic financial system to attain complete synchronization and antisynchronization along with the improved performance. H?-based control of multi-agent systems: Time-delayed signals, unknown leader states and switching graph topologies 28-Apr-2022 The paper investigates a leader-following scheme for nonlinear multi-agent systems (MASs). The network of agents involves time delay, unknown leader’s states, external perturbations, and switching graph topologies. Two distributed protocols, including a consensus protocol and an observer, are utilized to reconstruct the unavailable states of the leader in a network of agents. The H1-based stability conditions for estimation and consensus problems are obtained in the framework of linear-matrix inequalities (LMIs) and the LyapunovKrasovskii approach. It is ensured that each agent achieves the leader-following agreement asymptotically. Moreover, the robustness of the control policy concerning a gain perturbation is guaranteed. Simulation results are performed to assess the suggested schemes. It is shown that the suggested approach gives a remarkable accuracy in the consensus problem and leader’s states estimation in the presence of time-varying gain perturbations, time delay, switching topology and disturbances. The H1 and LMIs conditions are well satisfied
, and the error trajectories are well converged to the origin. Adaptive nonsingular integral-type dynamic terminal sliding mode synchronizer for disturbed nonlinear systems and its application to secure communication systems 19-Apr-2022 This study proposes an adaptive nonsingular integral dynamic terminal sliding mode tracker/synchronizer for disturbed nonlinear systems along with its usage in safe communication systems. The convergence of the closed-loop structure under
unknown uncertainty and disturbances is guaranteed via Lyapunov analysis. Furthermore, a parameter-tuning method is planned to approximate the upper bound of uncertainty and disturbance terms, since this latter is typically unknown in
practice. The proposed approach is used to design a digital secure transmission scheme according to the chaotic systems. The effectiveness of the suggested approach is validated using computer simulations on a benchmark example of chaotic
system. The obtained outcomes clearly confirm the ability of the planned control approach enables to attain the desired tracking/synchronizing performance despite the disturbances. Additionally, when implemented to the data encryption of
a communication system, the proposed control and secure communication techniques enabled the complete and secure retrieval of the original digital sequences. Prescribed performance attitude stabilization of a rigid body under physical limitations 23-Mar-2022 This study investigates the prescribed performance control problem associated with attitude stabilization of a rigid body, considering angular velocity constraint, actuator faults, and input saturation. The desired performance specifications in transient and steady-state phases including convergence speed,overshoot and steady-state value for attitude variable are also provided. To this end, the prescribed performance control methodology is combined with backstepping-based barrier Lyapunov function so as to develop a controller with simple structure compared to the existing constrained controls. The main idea behind the control design is to remove partial differential and complex function terms to considerably decrease complexity of the proposed controller. Moreover, a hyperbolic tangent function and an auxiliary system are employed to develop the constrained virtual rotation velocity control and to consider input saturation. The simulation results carried out on a rigid spacecraft confirm efficiency and success of the proposed constrained attitude control method. A Low-Complexity PD-Like Attitude Control for Spacecraft With Full-State Constraints 14-Mar-2022 The problem of attitude control for rigid spacecraft under the attitude and angular velocity constraints is investigated in this study. Particularly, a simple structure constrained proportional-derivative
(PD)-like control is proposed which contains two portions. The first portion is a conventional PD control to provide convergence of the system states; whereas the second portion provides the desired performance specifications such as convergence rate, overshoot and steady-state bound for attitude and rotation velocity to improve the attitude pointing accuracy and pointing stability. A simple structure-constrained attitude control for rigid bodies: A PD-type control 18-Jan-2022 This study investigates the challenging and complicated issue of full-state constraint attitude control for rigid bodies under actuators physical limitation. Using the concept of prescribed performance
control (PPC), a novel proportional-derivative (PD)-type control is introduced by which both the attitude quaternion and the rotation velocity of the rigid body are enforced to possess specific behaviors in transient
and steady state. To this end, a prescribed performance function (PPF) with finite-time convergence is first defined as the predefined boundaries for the quaternion and rotation velocity. Subsequently, a constrained
PD-type attitude control for rigid body attitude system is developed. The significant difference between the proposed methodology and the PPC is the simple structure of the controller making it more applicable
from practical implementation point of view. Indeed, due to the use of error transformation in the PPC, the controller contains partial derivative terms and complicated functions even for only constraining the
attitude quaternion. When it comes to angular velocity constraint as well, the complexity of the control design procedure is doubled. It is rigorously proved that the suggested control framework can successfully satisfy
constraints not only on the quaternion but also on the angular velocity, simultaneously. These interesting results are obtained even when the actuator saturation is considered. The simulation results conducted on a
rigid spacecraft verify the efficacy and applicability of the suggested constrained attitude control approach. Optimized Type-2 Fuzzy Frequency Control for Multi-Area Power Systems 28-Dec-2021 The objective of this study is minimizing the frequency deviation due to the load variations and fluctuations of renewable energy resources. In this paper, a new type-2 fuzzy control (T2FLC) approach
is presented for load frequency control (LFC) in power systems with multi-areas, demand response (DR), battery energy storage system (BESS), and wind farms. BESS is used to reduce the frequency deviations caused by wind energy, and DR is utilized to increase network stability due to fast load changes. The suggested T2FLC is online tuned based on the extended Kalman filter to improve the LFC accuracy in coordination of DR, BESS, and wind farms. The system dynamics are unknown, and the system Jacobian is extracted by online modeling with a simple multilayer perceptron neural network (MLP-NN). The designed LFC is evaluated through simulating on 10-machine New England 39-bus test system (NETS-39b) in four scenarios. Simulation results verifies the desired performance, indicating its superiority compared to a classical PI controllers, and type-1 fuzzy logic controllers (FLCs). The mean of improvement percentage is about 20%. A Robust H? Fault Tolerant Controller for Uncertain Systems Described by Linear Fractional Transformation Model 26-Jul-2021 In this article, a robust H1 fault tolerant control law is addressed for a class of the uncertain dynamical systems represented via linear fractional transformation. To this objective, a state-feedback controller law is utilized for achieving the control objective. Thus, a linear matrix inequality based performance condition would be derived to guarantee that the disturbance suppression is accomplished in the uncertain system. Hence, the gains of the robust H1 controller would be suitably determined by checking the feasibility of such a linear matrix inequality problem. The proposed control technique is numerically simulated in two dynamical uncertain systems (i.e., a typical control system and a mechanical robotic arm). Considering the disturbance rejections and transient responses, the results illustrate the efficiency of the recommended robust technique compared with the existing control methods. Design of a non-singular adaptive integral-type finite time tracking control for nonlinear systems with external disturbances 19-Jul-2021 This paper proposes an adaptive non-singular fast terminal sliding mode control (FTSMC) with integral surface for the finite time tracking control of nonlinear systems with external disturbances. An appropriate parameter-tuning adaptation law is derived to tackle the disturbances. A new fast terminal sliding scheme with self-tuning algorithm is proposed to synthesize the adaptive non-singular fast integral terminal sliding approach. The proposed approach has the following features: 1) It does not require the derivative of the fractional power terms with respect to time, thereby eschewing the singularity problem typically associated with TSMC; 2) It guarantees the existence of the switching phase under exogenous disturbances with unknown bounds; 3) Because of the integral terms in the sliding surface, the power functions are hidden behind the integrator; 4) It ensures chattering-free dynamics. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is assessed using both a simulation and an experimental study. The obtained results showed that the FTSM control technique guarantees that when the switching surface is reached, tracking errors converge to zero at a fast convergence rate. Additionally, the integral term offers one extra degree-of-freedom and since the time-derivative of fractional power terms is not needed in the controller, the proposed switching surface provides a comprehensive framework for singularity avoidance. Optimal Economic Modelling of Hybrid Combined Cooling, Heating, and Energy Storage System Based on Gravitational Search Algorithm-Random Forest Regression 15-May-2021 The hybridization of two or more energy sources into a single power station is one of the widely discussed solutions to address the demand and supply havoc generated by renewable production (wind-solar/photovoltaic (PV), heating power, and cooling power) and its energy storage issues. Hybrid energy sources work based on the complementary existence of renewable sources. The combined cooling, heating, and power (CCHP) is one of the significant systems and shows a profit from its low environmental impact, high energy efficiency, low economic investment, and sustainability in the industry. *is paper presents an economic model of a microgrid (MG) system containing the CCHP system and energy storage considering the energy coupling and conversion characteristics, the effective characteristics of each microsource, and energy storage unit is proposed. *e random forest regression (RFR) model was optimized by the gravitational search algorithm (GSA). The test results show that the GSA-RFR model improves prediction accuracy and reduces the generalization error. *e detail of the MG network and the energy storage architecture connected to the other renewable energy sources is discussed. *e mathematical formulation of energy coupling and energy flow of the MG network including wind turbines, photovoltaic (PV), CCHP system, fuel cell, and energy storage devices (batteries, cold storage, hot water tanks, and so on) are presented. The testing system has been analysed under load peak cutting and valley filling of energy utilization index, energy utilization rate, the heat pump, the natural gas consumption of the microgas turbine, and the energy storage unit. *e energy efficiency costs were observed as 88.2% and 86.9% with heat pump and energy storage operation comparing with GSA-RFR-based operation costs as 93.2% and 93% in summer and winter season, respectively. The simulation results extended the rationality and economy of the proposed model. Finite-time tracking controller design of perturbed robotic manipulator based on adaptive Second-order sliding mode control method 10-May-2021 This article presents an adaptive finite time second-order sliding mode tracking control scheme for robotic manipulators. A new control law is suggested to force the trajectories of the robot manipulator
to move from all initial conditions to proportional-integral-derivative switching surface in the finite time and stay on it. Moreover, the adaptation law rejects the requirement of knowledge about upper bound of
the external perturbations. It is difficult to exactly determine the upper bound of the perturbations in the practical systems, such as robot manipulators. Unlike the existing methods, the new adaptive finite time
second-order sliding mode tracker for n-link robot manipulators enables accurate tracking control, robust performance and parameter tuning. The suggested approach presents the design of a robust controller such
that the tracking errors of robot manipulator can reach the equilibrium in the finite time. Through the combination of the finite time tracker and disturbance observer, the position tracking purpose of manipulator
joints is accurately performed not only in the nominal environment, but also in the existence of different types of perturbations. The robustness performance and effectiveness of the offered technique are studied in
simulation and experimental results. Adaptive Integral-Based Robust Q-S Synchronization and Parameter Identification of Nonlinear Hyperchaotic Complex Systems 30-Apr-2021 )is communique presents the Q-S synchronization of two nonidentical complex nonlinear hyperchaotic systems with unknown parameters. An adaptive controller based on adaptive integral sliding mode control and parameter update laws are designed to
realize the synchronization and parameter identification to a given map vector. )e aforementioned strategy’s employment demands the transformation of a system into a specific structure containing a nominal part and some unknown terms (later on,
these unknown terms will be computed adaptively). An integral sliding mode controller is used to stabilize the error system by designing nominal control accompanied by compensator control. For chattering suppression, a continuous compensator of
smooth nature is used instead of conventional control. )e stability of the proposed algorithm is established in an impressive way, using Lyapunov criteria. A numerical simulation is performed to illustrate the validity of the proposed synchronization scheme. Adaptive Sliding Mode Based Stabilization Control for the Class of Underactuated Mechanical Systems 08-Feb-2021 This article presents a simple stabilizing control algorithm for a class of underactuated mechanical systems for two degrees of freedom (2DoF). In this respect, the adaptive sliding mode based strategy is proposed for the considered class. The controller, along with the adapted laws, is decided in such a way that the time derivative of a Lyapunov function grows negative. Adaptive Smooth Super-twisting Sliding Mode Control of Nonlinear Systems with Unmatched Uncertainty 28-Sep-2020 This article presents a novel strategy regarding the stabilization control problem for plants with unmatched uncertainties. The methodology is based on Adaptive Smooth Super Twisting Sliding Mode Control. At first, as an initial step, the plant with unmatched uncertainty is transformed into a plant with matched uncertainty. At the second step, the plant with matched uncertainty is decomposed into a unique framework containing the nominal part and some unknown terms (where these unknown terms are computed adaptively). Compact CPW-fed super wideband planar
elliptical antenna 01-Sep-2020 A compact co-planar waveguide (CPW) fed planar elliptical antenna has been designed and presented for super wideband (SWB) characteristics. The 
designed antenna has an overall size of 30 × 30 × 1.57 mm3, and it consists of an elliptical patch radiator fed using a modified 50 Ω CPW-fed tapered  icrostrip feed line. By using a semi-ring shaped structure with a tapered feed line, an impedance bandwidth of 180.66% has been observed from 1.27 to 25 GHz with a ratio bandwidth of 19.68:1. Modeling and Inverse Complex Generalized Synchronization and Parameter Identification of Non-Identical Nonlinear Complex Systems Using Adaptive Integral Sliding Mode Control 03-Mar-2020 This paper presents the Inverse Complex Generalized Synchronization (ICGS) of non-identical nonlinear complex systems with unknown parameters. Using the philosophy of adaptive integral sliding mode control, an adaptive controller and laws regarding parametric upgradation are designed to realize ICGS and parameter identification of two non-identical chaotic complex systems with respect to a given complex map vector. To employ the control, the error system is transformed into a unique structure containing a nominal part and some unknown terms, which are computed adaptively. Then, the error system is stabilized by using integral sliding mode control. Beveled-shaped super-wideband planar antenna 16-Jul-2018 In this paper, a design of beveled-shaped planar antenna has been presented for super-wideband applications. The proposed antenna consists of a beveled-shaped radiator, a tapered microstrip feed line, a partial ground plane, and two ground planes on the top side of the substrate. The top ground planes are used to match the impedance at lower frequencies and to minimize spurious radiations caused by the feed line. A tapered feed line has been utilized to enhance the overall bandwidth of an antenna. It has been observed from results that a ratio bandwidth of 66.6:1 has been achieved from 0.3 to 20 GHz. Furthermore, the proposed antenna exhibits good radiation characteristics and offers acceptable gain in the entire bandwidth. Synchronization of 4-D Hyperchaotic Rikitake Dynamo System  Along With Unknown Parameters Via   Adaptive Integral Sliding Mode 26-Mar-2018 An adaptive integral sliding mode control approach is proposed for the synchronization of 4-D identical hyperchaotic Rikitake dynamo system which operates with unknown parameters. The error dynamics are first transformed into a special structure which contains a known nominal part as well as unknown terms. The unknown terms are computed adaptively via an adaptive compensator, and the resulted error dynamics are stabilized asymptotically using integral sliding mode control. Smooth super-twisting sliding mode control
for the class of underactuated systems 10-Mar-2018 In this article, Smooth Super-twisting Sliding Mode Control (SSTWSMC) is investigated for the class of underactuated system. In underactuated systems, the control design is not directly applicable as for other systems (known as fully actuated systems). Therefore, at initial step, a nonlinear uncertain model of systems is transformed into the controllable canonical form, and then Smooth Super Twisting (SSTW) based Sliding Mode Control (SMC) is devised for the control design purpose for the considered class. A Comparative Experimental Study of Robust Sliding Mode Control Strategies for Underactuated Systems 12-Jul-2017 This paper presents a comprehensive comparative study for the tracking control of a class of underactuated nonlinear uncertain systems. A given nonlinear model of the underactuated system is, at first stage, transformed into an input output form and the driving applied control input of the transformed system is then designed via four sliding mode control strategies, i.e., conventional first order sliding mode control, second order sliding mode, fast terminal sliding mode, and integral sliding mode. Robust Control of Underactuated Systems: Higher Order Integral Sliding Mode Approach 12-Jan-2016 This paper presents a robust control design for the class of underactuated uncertain nonlinear systems. Either the nonlinear model of the underactuated systems is transformed into an input output form and then an integral manifold is devised for the control design purpose or an integral manifold is defined directly for the concerned class. Having defined the integral manifolds discontinuous control laws are designed which are capable of maintaining sliding mode from the very beginning. The closed loop stability of these systems is presented in an impressive way. The effectiveness and demand of the designed control laws are verified via the simulation and experimental results of ball and beam system. Courses Probability Methods in Engineering Electric Machines ML Based Seed Classification and Controlled Sowing System Ignite – National Technology Fund Pakistan Details IoT based Smart Irrigation System with Weather Forecasting Ignite – National Technology Fund Pakistan Details Water Treatment via Ozonation using PV Panel Ignite – National Technology Fund Pakistan Details Tele-monitoring via Mobile Robot Ignite – National Technology Fund Pakistan Details × search