Admissions Apply Admission Criteria Entry Test Information Upcoming Acceptable Entry Tests Scholarships Fee Structure FAQs Home Admissions FAQs How do I apply? You can apply by filling out the online admission application form at ( https://admissions.namal.edu.pk ).The online application will open in the month of January. You are required to have a valid email address to apply. Can I apply using the paper application? No, online admission applications are accepted, which allows us to process the admission applications more quickly. What is the last date of the Namal online admission application form? The last date to apply is July 31, 2025. Can I change any information in the online admission form? Yes, you can change your given information before the admission deadline. You will have to send an email to admissions@namal.edu.pk . Is Namal University recognized by the Higher Education Commission (HEC)? Yes. Namal is a recognized university by the Higher Education Commission (HEC), Pakistan. Is Namal University accredited by the Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) and National Computing Education Accreditation Council (NCEAC)? Yes. Namal is accredited by the Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) and National Computing Education Accreditation Council (NCEAC). What programs are offered at Namal University and what is their duration? Currently, the following 4-years undergraduate degree programs (on-campus) are being offered at Namal University; BS Electrical Engineering BS Computer Science BS Mathematics BBA Is Namal offering short courses/languages or any other programs? No. Is Namal a Campus or has an affiliation with any other University? No, Namal University is not a Campus nor has an affiliation with any other University Where is Namal located? Are there multiple campuses in Pakistan? There is only one campus of Namal University, which is located at 30 KM Mianwali-Talagang road. It is about 2 hours’ drive (100 KM) from the motorway through Balkassar Interchange and about an hour’s drive (60 KM) from the CPEC, Kot Belian Interchange. What is the eligibility to apply for admissions? At least 70% marks in intermediate/ equivalent exams. The result awaiting candidate will also be eligible to apply based on first-year/ equivalent exams, who will be offered conditional admission. The confirmation of admission will be subject to obtaining a minimum of 70% marks in the intermediate/ equivalent exams, providing the (certificate or detailed mark sheet, etc.) after the declaration of the result, duly verified by the relevant Board/Board website. Non- matriculation/ intermediate stream students must provide an equivalence certificate obtained from IBCC, Pakistan. What is the merit of the admission? Namal aggregate merit criteria will be based as follows. Program Qualification/ Entry test Weightage BS EE BS CS BBA BS Mathematics Intermediate/ equivalent Exam 50% Entry Test 50% Is there any application fee? How do I pay it? Yes, you have to pay a non-refundable admission application fee i.e., Rs. 1000/- to be deposited at any branch of Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB) in Pakistan through Namal Challan form or Online Banking (Jazz Cash, Easy Paisa, Upay, ATM). The Namal Bank Account details are as follows; Bank Name: Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB) Account #: 1483302031001808 IBAN: PK24MUCB1483302031001808 Account Title: Namal University Mianwali Fee Collection What is the Fee Structure? Details regarding fee structure are available at https://namal.edu.pk/fee-structure . Is there any Financial Support available? Yes, Namal provides Merit Scholarships as well as Need-based Financial Support to attract talented students. Details are available at https://namal.edu.pk/scholarships Will there be any interviews for financial support? Yes, the applicant has to fill out the Financial Support Forms and also provided certain documents before the interview for Need-based Financial Support. Will there be any entry test? Yes, please see the detailed information on https://namal.edu.pk/entry-test-information How many seats are available for the program? There are 40 seats available in each program. Do I need to get an equivalence certificate from IBCC? Non- matriculation/ intermediate stream students must provide an equivalence certificate obtained from IBCC, Pakistan. Are there any quota seats at Namal University? No. Admissions are offered on open merit only (No quota). Namal University does not discriminate based on ethnicity, race, religion, or gender. I want to return to my studies after a gap in my education. Is there an age limit for applications? There is no age limit. All applicants who qualify on merit will be considered. Is there any option of migration to Namal University? No. There is no option of migration. Will there be any interviews for admissions? No. Is there co-education at Namal University? Yes. Namal university has the distinction of being the first professional institution in the district that accords equal learning opportunities to both males and females. Is hostel accommodation available? Yes. There are separate hostels for males and females. They are situated at a short distance from the University, and students commute on the University buses free of cost. Does Namal University have any political affiliations? Namal has no political affiliations, and no political parties are allowed representation on campus. Are there any open days? Namal university welcomes you to come and see the facilities and seek clarifications regarding admissions. We also conduct information sessions during our admission drive at various schools, Universities, and academies across Pakistan to inform prospective students about admissions and other related matters. I still have some questions. How can I seek further clarification? You can contact us via: Email: admissions@namal.edu.pk Phone: 0459-236995 ext-130 & 107 Mobile & Whatsapp: +92300 9236995 Office timings: 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM (Monday to Friday) Namal website: www.namal.edu.pk × search