Departments Academic Departments Department of Electrical Engineering Department of Computer Science Department of Business Studies Department of Mathematics Administrative Departments Office of the Registrar Office of the CoE Office of the Treasurer Academic Calendar Student Handbook ORIC Quality Enhancement Cell Placement Center Home Departments Office Of The CoE Office of the Controller of Examinations (CoE) With the advent of the Namal College as the first private sector institution of higherprofessional learning, it was affiliated with the University of Bradford (UoB), UK. Hence to implement the academic requirements of the UoB at the Namal College and coordinate for conducting the UoB Examinations at Namal, an Exam and Partnership office was established at the beginning of the College. However, after the Namal University got its Degree Awarding Status through the Act of the Punjab Provincial Assembly in 2019, a separate and independent Office of the Controller of Examination has been established. It has two major components; Exams and Partnership Office (EPO) looking after the affairs of students registered with the universities (UoB for batches from 2010 to 2015. and UET, Lahore for batches from 2016 to 2018). Since Fall 2019, the students are being regulated under the Namal Academic Regulations framed for undergraduate Degree Programmes. Two of 0ur batches (Class of 2023 & Class of 2024) have successfully graduated from Namal University. The office has introduced the QR Codes for the self-verification of the academic documents. The main objectives of the office include: Establishing the authenticity of information disseminated from this office Ensure the safe custody of master record pertaining to Exams Execution of exam related functions efficiently within the prescribed time Dr.Khawar Khurshid Controller of Examinations (Acting) coe@namal.edu.pk Functions and Duties of the Exam Office To plan and conduct all Examinations according to the approved Academic Regulations. To maintain secrecy in handling the question papers, answer sheets and tabulation of the examination results. To issue Result Notifications after each Exam and Gazette Notifications of Graduates. To issue the Transcripts, Provisional Certificates, and degrees to the candidates. To provide adequate information on all examination matters and to bring to the notice of the authorities any infringement of the Regulations pertaining to the examination and ensure that the decision of the BoG and other competent authority communicated are given effect. Exam Team Ms. Asma Batool Manager asma.awan@namal.edu.pk Mr. Zafar Iqbal Assistant Manager zafar.iqbal@namal.edu.pk Mr. Muhammad Farhan Examination Officer muhammad.farhan@namal.edu.pk × search