Departments Academic Departments Department of Electrical Engineering Department of Computer Science Department of Business Studies Department of Mathematics Administrative Departments Office of the Registrar Office of the CoE Office of the Treasurer Academic Calendar Student Handbook ORIC Quality Enhancement Cell Placement Center Home Departments Quality Enhancement Cell Introduction Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC) has been working in Namal since it was an affiliated college of University of Bradford, UK and later of University of Engineering & Technology (UET), Lahore. After achieving the status of degree awarding institution in 2019, QEC was further streamlined with the policy guidelines of QAA of HEC. Vision of QEC To employ continuous and gradual efforts in introducing and implementing the academic quality standards with the aim to fulfill the vision of Namal university of becoming a center of academic excellence for national uplift and development. Mission of QEC To devise and implement the quality assurance framework in order to meet the quality standards in teaching, research, and development in line with the mission statement of Namal university, i.e; Educating talented students who have Namal values and will contribute to organizations and community. Finding innovative solutions to rural challenges by highly trained academics. Major Activities Formulation and development of standards & policies related to Quality Implementation of Internal and External Quality Assurance Mechanism Coordination with Academic Departments regarding Accreditation Visits Conduct of Seminars/Lectures/Workshops on Quality Assurance Online conduct and analysis of feedback surveys Competing in National and International Rankings Acquiring membership of International Quality Networks Attending National and International events related to Quality Assurance Assessment Classification of Assessment Assessment can be classified into following components. Internal Quality Assurance (IQA) External Quality Assurance (EQA) Internal Quality Assurance (IQA) IQA mechanism ensures effective execution of quality standards prescribed by HEC through an implementation of Self-Assessment Process. External Quality Assurance (EQA) External Quality Assurance practices are carried out to compare quality standards of HEIs with national and international standards of HEC. Quality Assurance Policy Quality Assurance policies provide systematic guidelines and procedures to add value to quality assessment of the academic excellence impart by the Namal University by encouraging a high quality assessment/review process of institutional performance and effectiveness of the degree programmes being offered at Namal University Mianwali. The Office of Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC) is responsible for implementing QA policies in line with the Quality Assurance Agency of HEC. The QEC periodically determines whether or not standards of education, scholarship and infrastructure are being met, maintained and enhanced according to the internal and external assessments. Memberships To ensure that Namal University is in line with national and International Standards & to follow best practices at national and international level of Quality Assurance, Quality Enhancement Cell (QEC) has obtained memberships of National and International Quality Networks. Major advantages of these memberships are as under: Participation in Annual Conference and AGM as well as online forum Branding through using their logos on website or in relative documents Develop different kinds of collaborations across the distinguished network of QAAs and HEIs Co-organize international seminars and workshops Have the right to apply for their Awards which occurs once every year Receive the electronic Newsletter twice every year and Annual Report Have access and get advice on different and specific QA matters Memberships acquired are as follow: Pakistan Network of Quality Assurance in Higher Education (PNQAHE) Asia Pacific Quality Network (APQN) Rankings Namal University is on the ranking list of UI Green Metric Ranking since 2019. Downloads Quality Assurance Policy QA Manual QEC Activity Calendar (2025-26) Executive Summary of QA Framework Institutional Performance Evaluation Manual Performance Evaluation Standards for HEIs Self-Assessment Manual Guidelines for Executive Summary Rubric Evaluation of SARs form Outcomes of Internal & External QA Reviews 2024-25 Compliance of Internal & External QA Reviews 2023-24 Notification of IQC Notification RIPE- IPR Committee Notification RIPE- Review Committee Notification RIPE- Follow-up Committee Accreditation Certificate- BS Electrical Engineering Accreditation Certificate for BS Computer Science Outstanding Teacher Award Policy Outstanding Teacher Award Nomination Form Faculty Course Review Report HEC Policy Documents PSG 2023 PREE RIPE REQAAB Survey Forms Teacher Evaluation and Course Evaluation by Students Alumni Survey Employer Survey Graduating Students Survey QEC Team Dr. Shoaib Irshad Director Quality Enhancement Cell Dr. M. Jahangir Khan Manager Quality Enhancement Cell Dr. Ahmed Salim Member Department of Electrical Engineering Dr. Sami Ullah Khan Member Department of Mathematics Dr. Shafiq Ur Rehman Khan Member Department of Computer Science Dr. Umar Farooq Member Department of Business Studies Contact Us QEC Secretariat Email: directorqec@namal.edu.pk ; managerqec@namal.edu.pk Address: QEC Office, Hall Number 16, Main Block, Namal University, 30-km Talagang Road, Mianwali. Office Phone: +92(0)459-236995 Ext.196 & 154 × search